.\" This manpage source uses rsml coding. 
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/sml
.so /usr/share/lib/tmac/rsml
.\"
.\"
.\" *********************************************************************
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *      Copyright (c) Digital Equipment Corporation, 1991, 1996      *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" *                                                                   *
.\" *********************************************************************
.\"
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: pixstats.1,v $ $Revision: 3.2.7.4 $ (DEC) $Date: 1995/11/17 20:03:10 $
.\"
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\" | Copyright MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.  All Rights |
.\" | Reserved.                                         |
.\" -----------------------------------------------------
.\"  pixstats.1 3.1
.TH pixstats 1 95/11/17 "Digital OSF1 UNIX V4.0"
.SH NAME
.PP
\*Lpixstats\*O \- analyze program execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\*Lpixstats\*O \*Vprogram\*O [ \*Voptions\*O ]
.SH PARAMETERS
.PP
.VL
.LI "\*Vprogram\*O"
Name of the program executable to be instrumented.  This program should be compiled
with the \*L\-g1\*O, \*L\-g2\*O, or \*L\-g3\*O flag to obtain more complete
profiling information.  If the default symbol table level (\*L\-g0\*O) has been
used, line number information, static procedure names, and file names are
unavailable to the profiling code.
.LE
.SH FLAGS
.PP
The \*Lpixstats\*O command accepts the following options:
.VL 4m
.LI "\*L\-addrs\*O \*Vfile\*O"
Use \*Vfile\*O instead of \*Vprogram\*O.Addrs as the \*Lpixie\*O address file.
.LI "\*L\-counts\*O \*Vfile\*O"
Use \*Vfile\*O instead of \*Vprogram\*O.Counts as the \*Lpixie\*O counts file.
.LI "\*L\-cycle \*O\*Vns\*O"
Assume a \*Vns\*O cycle time when converting cycle counts to seconds.
.\" Commenting out per 'kjl'
.\" .LI "\*L\-r2010\*O"
.\" Use R2010 floating point chip operation times and overlap rules.  This
.\" is the default.
.\" .LI "\*L\-r2360\*O"
.\" Use R2360 floating point board operation times and overlap rules.
.LI "\*L\-clock\*O \*VMHz\*O"
Assume \*VMHz\*O cycle frequency when converting counts to seconds.  By default,
\*Lpixstats\*O uses the cycle time of the processor on which \*Vprogram\*O
was run.
.LI "\*L\-disassemble\*O"
Disassemble and show the analyzed object code.
.LI "\*L\-dislimit \*O\*Vf\*O"
Limit the disassembly to blocks with \*Vf%\*O frequency.
.LI "\*L\-nocounts\*O"
Use 1 for each basic block count.
.LE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.iX "pixstats command"
The \*Lpixstats\*O program
analyzes a program's execution characteristics.
To use
\*Lpixstats\*O, first use \*Lpixie\*O(1) to translate and instrument
the executable object module for the program.  Next, execute the
translation on an appropriate input.  This produces a \*L\.Counts\*O file.
Finally, use \*Lpixstats\*O to generate a detailed report on opcode
frequencies, a mini-profile, and more.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
.PP
The \*Lpixstats\*O program models execution assuming a perfect memory system.
Memory system events such as cache misses will increase execution
above the \*Lpixstats\*O predictions.
.PP
The \*Lpixstats\*O program assumes that every instruction executes in one cycle,
both when estimating the total runtime in seconds and when printing the flat
profile.  Pipeline interlocks are ignored.  Use the
\*Lprof -pixie -truecycles\*O \*Vn\*O command (specifying 0, 1, or 2
for \*Vn\*O) to print a variety of profiles that do account for interlocks.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.PP
\*Lprof\*O(1), \*Lpixie\*O(5)
.PP
\*EProgrammer's Guide\*O
.EQ
delim off
.EN
