.\"_
.TH DOSPUT 1 94/12/02 LOCAL
.SH NAME
dosput \- send files from DOS based PC to a UNIX based computer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dosput
.I dstfile
.B <
.I srcfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Introduction
.PP
This program simply transfers a file from a DOS based PC platform
to a UNIX platform but strips off the brain damaged line coding
junk (namely the carriage return characters and the control-Z character
which may be found at the end of a DOS file) that DOS 
platforms put into line coded text files.  This program only
reads the \fIstandard input\fP for the source.  Note that the single
argument must be the name of a \fBfile\fP that the converted data
will be written into.
.\"_
.SS Options
There are no options to this program.  Just the one file name that
must be present on the command line.
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \(rh 5
To just convert a file 
(with a filename of \fC/file\fP)
from a DOS line encoded format to UNIX line encoding (with a filename of
(\fC/home/dam/rje/filename\gP), execute :
.EX
dosput /home/dam/rje/filename < file
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
send a DOS based line coded file to the file path
\fC/home/dam/rje/filename\fP on the UNIX platform \fCmtsva\fP :
.EX
uux -p mtsva!dosput /home/dam/rje/filename < file
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
send a DOS based line coded file to the file path
\fC/home/wen/rje/newname\fP on the UNIX platform \fCmtsva\fP :
.EX
uux -p mtsva!dosput /home/wen/rje/newname < file
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
uux(1), uucp(1), uuto(1), usend(1)
.SH CAVEATS
Do not attempt to send binary files using this command.
Use the straight \fBuucp\fP, \fBuuto\fP, or \fBusend\fP command
instead for this.
.PP
Files can only be sent to machines that are known to the
source machine (but cross mounted file-systems count as local).  
There is no forwarding of file transfer requests
as is sometimes possible (if configured properly) with other
UUCP oriented commands such as \fBuucp\fP and \fBuuto\fP.
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located in 
\fC/usr/add-on/local/bin\fP on most systems.
.\"_
