.\"_
.TH DOSPRT 1 94/12/02 LOCAL
.SH NAME
dosprt, dosprtfmt, dosprtmin \- print out files from a DOS based PC
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dosprt
.OP -d "  dst" ] [
.OP -c "  copies" ] [
.OP -s "  sides" ] [
.OP -l "  lang" ] [
.OP -p "  mode" ] [
.OP -f "  form" ] [
.br
.B dosprtfmt
.OP -d "  dst" ] [
.OP -c "  copies" ] [
.OP -s "  sides" ] [
.OP -p "  mode" ] [
.OP -f "  form" ] [
.MW [
.I other_options ...
.MW ]
.br
.B dosprtmin
.OP -d "  dst" ] [
.OP -c "  copies" ] [
.OP -s "  sides" ] [
.OP -p "  mode" ] [
.OP -f "  form" ] [
.\"_
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"_
.SS Introduction
.PP
These commands are the DOS counterparts to the same commands on the
UNIX system but named without the \fIdos\fP prefix.  They work similarly
to the non-DOS versions (since they really call the straight versions of
these programs anyway) but strip off the brain damaged DOS style
line coding junk that DOS systems include in line coded text files.
.PP
Specifically, these programs do the following :
.\"_
.IP DOSPRT 15
This program prints files out using the features available with the
common \f(CWprt\fP command.  These features include printing out
files containing special graphics formats in addition to text like
\fItiff\fP, \fIgif\fP, \fItek\fP (Tektronix plotting instructions),
\fIpict\fP (or \fIpct\fP as often seen on DOS or UNIX platforms),
\fIplot\fP, et cetera.  This command is most commonly used to 
simply print out straight text files.  The default language, when not
specified, is \f(CWtext\fP.
.\"_
.IP DOSPRTFMT 15
This command is used to print out files that contain AT&T Documentor's
Workbench typesetting input.  Common examples include MM macro
formatted input source or MS macro formatted input source.
The choice of the proper macro packages to use is determined
dynamically by the command.  The choice of the appropriate 
preprocessors is also determined dynamically.
.\"_
.IP DOSPRTMIN 15
This is used to print out a straight text file in a "mini" type of
font like in the old days with the Xerox printers with the old Bell
Laboratories "mini" font on them.  Each output page contains
almost two
pages worth of lines.  The lines are not separated
into page "images" as with other "save paper" like techniques but
rather in a single combined page image.
.\"_
.PP
Note carefully that these commands only accept and format data on their
standard input.  File names placed on the command line will result
in an error about not finding the file but under no circumstance
will anything be printed if a file name is accidentally placed
on the command invocation line.  
This behavior is different from the non-DOS
versions of these commands which can take file names on their command
lines.
.\"_
.SS Options
.IP "-d  \fIdst\fP" 10
This allows for the specification of the printer destination.
If this option is not specified, then a default printer is selected
by some means.
.IP "-c  \fIcopies\fP" 10
The \fB-c\fP option allows for the specification of the number of
copies of the mail message to print out.
.IP "-s  \fIsides\fP" 10
The \fB-s\fP option allows for the specification of the number of
sides of paper to use for the printed.
Valid values associated with this option key are '\fB1\fP' and '\fB2\fP'.
If this option is not specified then the default number of sides
configured for the printer will be used.  For one-sided printers,
this value will be set to '\fB1\fP' regardless of the user
supplied value.
.IP "-p  \fImode\fP" 10
This allows for specifying a print mode such as :
.EX
land	\fRor\fP	landscape
port	\fRor\fP	portrait
.EE
.IP "-f  \fIform\fP" 10
This option allows for the specification of a printer form and
can take on different values depending on the printer destination.
Examples of the common values are :
.\"_
.\"_ note that the number of tabs are a hack to make it look right on
.\"_ output ; i'm too lazy to figure out how to do it correctly !
.EX
nohole			(\fR8.5x11 -- the default\fP)
hole				(\fR8.5x11\fP)
11x17 \fRor\fP ledger
11x14 \fRor\fP legal
.EE
Not all printers accept all of these forms and most printers
do not really accept any of them except for \fCnohole\fP.
.IP "-l  \fIland\fP" 10
This option allows for the specification of the printer language
in the user's file or files.  This option is only allowed for
the \fBdosprt\fP command.  All files on a single command execution must
contain the same printer language.
.SS Execution
These commands are usually executed using the UUCP facility or something
similar.  Typical execution using UUCP would be of the form :
.EX
uux -p mtsvd!dosprt -l post -d lp1 < file.ps
.EE
.PP
Note that, currently, no files can be specified on the command line.
Input will only be properly accepted when it is on the \fIstandard input\fP.
If there are files
specified on the command line, then no data will be printed and some sort
of error diagnostic may be given.
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.IP \(rh 5
To print a file (from a PC or other UUCP machine)
containing PostScript language to the default printer, use
a command like :
.EX
uux -p mtsvd!dosprt -l post < file.ps
.EE
Note carefully, that this command \fBwill not\fP necessarily work
for PostScript files that contain binary data.  Use the plain old
\fBprt\fP command for this purpose from the DOS PC platform instead
of \fBdosprt\fP.
.IP \(rh 5
To print a file containing just ASCII text to the default printer, use :
.EX
uux -p mtsvd!dosprt < file.txt
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To print a file containing just ASCII text to
the specified printer but in \fBmini\fP format, use some thing like :
.EX
uux -p mtsvd!dosprtmin -d lp1 < file.c
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To print a file containing standard DWB typesetting 
instructions (MM, MS, troff,
et cetera) to a specified printer :
.EX
uux -p mtsvd!dosprtfmt -d lp1 < file.dwb
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To print a file containing standard DWB typesetting 
instructions to the site's
default printer, use :
.EX
uux -p mtsvd!dosprt < file.mm
.EE
.IP \(rh 5
To print a DOS line encoded file that is already on a UNIX system
to the site
default printer, use :
.EX
dosprt < file.mm
.EE
.\"_
.SH SEE ALSO
uux(1), uucp(1), prt(1), prtfmt(1), prtmin(1), .prt(4)
.\"_
.SH CAVEATS
Not all platforms are supported equally with respect to
continued user control over the disposition of the print job
with respect to
being either monitored (\fIprtq\fP) or canceled (\fIprtc\fP).
Also, these commands currently only accept standard input and
cannot be used to print a file by placing the name of the
file on the command line like with the non-DOS command counterparts.
.\"_
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located in 
\fC/usr/add-on/local/bin\fP on most systems.
.\"_
.SH WARNINGS
Be careful to put a space between all option key letters and the associated
key letter parameter.
.\"_
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Morano
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The idea for this program was taken from the UNISON \f(CWprt(1)\fP
program.
.\_"
.\_"
