.\"_
.TH USEND 1 94/12/02 LOCAL
.SH NAME
usend, dosusend \- send files from one machine to another
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B usend
.OP -d "  nodename"
.OP -u "  username"
.I file
.MW [
.I file(s) ...
.MW ]
.br
.B usend
.OP -d "  nodename"
.OP -u "  username"
.OP -f "  filename"
.B <
.I file
.br
.B dosusend
.OP -d "  nodename"
.OP -u "  username"
.I file
.MW [
.I file(s) ...
.MW ]
.br
.B dosusend
.OP -d "  nodename"
.OP -u "  username"
.OP -f "  filename"
.B <
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.SS Introduction
.PP
This program simply transfers one or more files from one computer machine
to another.  The different computers may be UNIX or DOS based.
In the case of a DOS based computer as the source machine, the 
command \fBdosusend\fP may be suitable for converting DOS based line
encoded text files to the normal UNIX line encoding.
Both of the commands, \fBusend\fP and \fBdosusend\fP, are the same
except that \fBdosusend\fP does a line encoding conversion on its
input files before sending to the destination machine.
This latter command is therefor oriented towards running from a
DOS based PC platform to transfer files to a UNIX platform.
All files are only transferred to the destination machine user's
RJE directory.  If the destination user's RJE directory already has
a file with the same name then it will be overwritten if its
write permissions allow for \fIother\fPs to write to the file.
Otherwise, this command will fail in some way that may or may not
provide notification back to the sending user.
.\"_
.SS Command Arguments
.IP "-d  \fIdst\fP" 10
This key letter and its associated value \fBmust\fP be supplied.
This argument provides the nodename for the destination machine.
.IP "-u  \fIuser\fP" 10
This argument must also be supplied and it provides the recipient
user to receive the file transfer(s).  A valid user name on the
destination machine is required here.
.IP "-f  \fIfilename\fP" 10
This option must be used when the \fIstandard input\fP is used
instead of naming files on the command line.
This argument must be a simple file name which will be used for
the name of the file on the destination machine in the destination
user's RJE directory.  No paths for this filename argument are
allowed.
.PP
If files are present on the command line, they will be sent to
the destination machine/user pair and any input waiting on
\fIstandard input\fP is ignored.  If there are no files on the
command line, then the \fIstandard input\fP is read to obtain
the file contents.
.\"_
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP \(rh 5
send a DOS based line coded file to the file path
\fC/home/gav/rje/newfile\fP on the UNIX platform \fCmtgbcs\fP,
using the local UUCP machine \fCmtsva\fP as the gateway :
.EX
uux -p mtsva!dosusend -d mtgbcs -u gav -f newfile < file
.EE
Note that the \fB-f\fP argument is required when reading source
from standard input.
.IP \(rh 5
send a binary file (named \fIfile\fP) from a DOS based platform
to the file path
\fC/home/wen/rje/file\fP on the UNIX platform \fCdrutx\fP using
the PC's UUCP partner machine \fCmtsva\fP as a gateway :
.EX
uux -p mtsva!usend -d drutx -u wen !file
.EE
Not all implementations of UUCP appear to support the syntax above
for specifying local files on a UUX command line.
.SH SEE ALSO
uux(1), uucp(1), uuto(1), usend(1)
.SH CAVEATS
Do not attempt to send binary files using the \fBdosusend\fP command.
Use the straight \fBusend\fP, \fBuucp\fP, or the \fBuuto\fP command
instead for this.
.SH PATH TO
This program is currently located in 
\fC/usr/add-on/local/bin\fP on most systems.
.\"_
