.\"	$Id: lproff.1,v 1.4 1994/06/17 17:28:57 gc Exp $
.\"	CRC=4117290613
.\"
.TH LPROFF 1L 94/06/17 "Div113 local"
.SH NAME
lproff \-
print TROFF files on PostScript printers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lproff
.RB [ \-P printer]
.RB [ \-t ]
.RB [ \-T device]
.RB [ \-e dpost_options]
.RB [ \- troff_options]
.RB [ + plus_options]
[file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lproff
processes troff input file[s]
and sends the output to the designated
PostScript printer.
If no files are given,
it reads the standard input;
thus it can be used as a filter.
.PP
The program will first resolve all 
.B .so
include requests, and run the standard
troff pre-processors:
.IR grap (dwb),
.IR pic (dwb),
.IR tbl (dwb),
and
.IR eqn (dwb).
The pre-processed input is then
run through
.IR troff (dwb)
and the standard PostScript post-processor
.IR dpost (dwb),
unless post-processing was cancelled by the
.B \-T
flag.
.PP
The options are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 10
.BI \-P printer
overide the environment variable
.B $PRINTER
and send the output to
.IR printer .
.TP 10
.B \-t
print the result on standard output.
.TP 10
.BI \-T device
use given device instead of
.I post 
(implies the 
.B \-t
option).
.TP 10
.BI \-e dpost_options
options to be passed down to
.IR dpost ;
see
.IR dpost (dwb)
manual page.
.TP 10
.BI \- troff_options
options to be passwd down to
.IR troff ;
see
.IR troff (dwb)
manual page.
.TP 10
.BI + plus_options
common printer commands options;
see
.IR plusopts (1L)
manual page.
.PD
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
grap(dwb),
pic(dwb),
tbl(dwb),
eqn(dwb).
dpost(dwb),
troff(dwb),
plusopts(1L)
.SH EXAMPLES
To print a memo with the
.I mm
macros, on printer
.I xyz
on both sides of the paper,
use:
.nf
.RS 5
lproff \-Pxyz \-mm +duplex file1
.RE
.fi
.PP
To print a manual page to your default
printer 
(specified in your
.B $PRINTER
variable) use:
.nf
.RS 5
lproff \-man file2
.RE
.fi
.\"	.SH DIAGNOSTICS
