.\"_
.TH PLUSOPTS 1 "27 March 1992"
.SH NAME
plusopts \- options to printer commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
prt... \f(CB+\fP\fIoption\fP ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.de cW
\&\f(CW\\$1\fP\\$2
..
Many of the 113-MH printer commands
are pipelines of other commands.
For example, the
.I *roff
commands invoke
.cW troff
and
.cW dpost
while the
.I *print
commands invoke
.cW pr
and
.cW postprint .
It is not always obvious which command line arguments
get passed to which element of the pipeline.
By default,
.I *roff
arguments are turned over to
.cW troff
and
.I *print
arguments to
.cW postprint .
As a result, users must specify different options
to get ``the same thing'' done.
For example, to get 2 copies of each page, the
.I *print
commands pass argument
.cW \-n2
to
.cW postprint .
But the
.I *roff
commands pass
.cW \-n2
to
.cW troff
where it determines the number on the first page.
Users must specify
.cW \-e\-n2
to pass argument
.cW \-n2
to
.cW dpost .
The potential for confusion is obvious.
.PP
The
.cW +
options were introduced as an alternate method
of requesting certain options.
For example,
.cW +2copies
will cause the
.I *print,
.I *roff
and
.I *dvi
commands to generate 2 copies of each page.
Regrettably,
not all options are recognized by all the printer commands,
and some options are only supported on certain printers.
The notation
[dprP]
will mean that the option is recognized by the
.I *dvi ,
.I *print,
.I *roff,
and
.I *post
commands.
If a command does not support an option,
its initial will be omitted from the group.
In general,
unsupported options are simply ignored.
.PP
All options must be written as a single word.
No white space can be embedded.
No abbreviations are recognized.
.TP
.cW +portrait
[dpr]
Orient the printing with the narrow edge of the paper at the top of the page.
.TP
.cW +landscape
[dpr]
Orient the printing with the wide edge of the paper at the top of the page.
The
.I *print
commands will change the width at which lines are folded
to accommodate the wider format.
The input to the
.I *roff
and
.I *dvi
commands would have to inform the corresponding formatters
about the unusual page layout.
.TP
.cW +reverse
[dprP]
Run
.cW postreverse
(for
.I *roff,
.I *print,
and
.I *post
)
or give the
.cW -r
option to
.cW dvips
(for
.I *dvi
)
to reverse the order of the pages.
This is the default on printers that have face-up output
trays (e.g. the LaserWriters).
.TP
.cW +noreverse
[dprP]
Do not run any page-reversal software.
This is the default on printers that have face-down output
trays (currently, the HP LaserJet IIISi and QMS 2210 11x17 printers).
.TP
.cW +blastpage
[dprP]
Print a blast page.  This is the default.
.TP
.cW +noblastpage
[dprP]
Do not print a blast page.
.PP
The following options apply to
.I *roff
commands only, and cause the input
to be processed by the corresponding filter.
They have the same effect as the
.cW \-f
arguments to the
.I *roff
commands.
.TP
.cW +tbl
.TP
.cW +eqn
.TP
.cW +pic
.TP
.cW +grap
.cW pic
is always invoked if
.cW grap
is specified.
.PP
The following options
take numeric arguments.
The numbers may precede
or follow
the option name,
but no white space may intervene.
For example,
.cW +1.25up
or
.cW +up1.25
may be used, but not
.cW "+up 1.25" .
.TP
.cW +copies
[dpr]
Make the specified number of copies of each page.
It should be noted that photocopiers
are faster and cheaper than laser printers.
.TP
.cW +magnify
[pr]
Magnify the printed image.
Numbers less than 1.0 will shrink the image.
Numbers greater than 1.0 run the risk of clipping the image.
.TP
.cW +perpage
[dprP]
Print the specified number of logical pages
on each sheet of paper.
.cW persheet
is recognized as a synonym.
The
.I *dvi
and
.I *post
commands implement this by using
.cW psnup ,
thus restricting the number of logical pages to be a power of 2.
.TP
.cW +right
.TP
.cW +left
.TP
.cW +up
.TP
.cW +down
[pr]
The printed image is shifted the specified number of inches
in the specified direction.
The number can be signed, with
.cW +up.25
equivalent to
.cW +down-.25 ,
both shifting the image .25 inches toward the top of the page.
.PP
The following options take lists of pages as an argument.
A list is a comma-delimited set of page ranges and page numbers.
A page range is a pair of page numbers separated by a hyphen.
If the first number in a range is missing,
page 1 is assumed.
If the second number in a range is missing,
the last page in the document is assumed.
If no list is specified,
the options are assumed to apply to all pages in the document.
Because of the way
.cW dvips
works, The
.I *dvi
commands cannot handle lists,
only a single page or a single range, and the
.I *post
commands, since they don't parse the postscript
into pages, will only apply the options to all pages in the document.
.TP
.cW +pages
[dpr]
Display only the specified pages.
Only a single page or a single range may be specified
for the
.I *dvi
commands.
.TP
.cW +manualfeed
[dprP]
Take the specified pages from the manual feed.
.I *dvi
commands will take
.I all
pages from the manual feed;
the option cannot be limited to a subset of the printed pages.
.cW manual
is recognized as a synonym.
If you specify this option,
you must be present at the printer when the job arrives
to insert paper in the manual feeder.
If you are not, the job will time out.
.TP
.cW +letterhead
[dprP]
Take the specified pages from the alternate paper feed.
This only works on printers with two input feeds.
The intent is to keep one Dataproducts printer
loaded with company letterhead in the alternate feed.
.TP
.cW +11x17
[dprP]
Take the specified pages from the 11 by 17 inch paper tray.
The intent is to keep one Dataproducts printer
loaded with 11 by 17 inch paper in the alternate feed.
.TP
.cW +duplex
[dprP]
Print the specified pages in duplex (2-sided) mode.
.TP
.cW +noduplex
.TP
.cW +simplex
[dprP]
Print the specified pages in simplex (1-sided) mode.
.TP
.cW +bindlong
[dprP]
In duplex mode, orient the images on each side of the paper assuming
that the long edge is the one that's stapled.
This is the default.
.TP
.cW +bindshort
[dprP]
In duplex mode, orient the images on each side of the paper assuming
that the short edge is the one that's stapled.
This is useful when the +2perpage or +6perpage option is used.
.TP
.cW +quality:draft
.TP
.cW +quality:standard
.TP
.cW +quality:enhanced
.TP
.cW +quality:premium
[dprP]
Use the given quality setting when printing the pages.
Currently applies only to the Tektronix Phaser III PXi printers.
.SH AUTHOR
John P. Linderman
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.cW +help
or
.TP
.cW +?
will generate a summary of the options,
and cause the command to exit with a non-zero
exit status.
