.\"_
.TH PRTC 1 "90/04/13 3.11" UNISON
.SH NAME
prtc \- cancel a UNISON request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.\"_
.\"	Module:   prtc.1, Level 3.11
.\"	File:     /az07/kls/UNISON.SCCS.3/man/u_man/man1/s.prtc.1
.\"_
.\"	Modified: 4/13/90  13:21:03
.\"	Fetched:  11/15/90  21:40:25
.\"_
.\"_
.\"_
.\" updated by un87-02805 on 02/05/87 by TPS
.\" updated by un88-03402 on 02/04/87 by TPS
.\" updated by un88-17303 on 06/21/88 by TPS
.\" updated by un88-02908 on 01/13/89 by TPS
.\" updated by un89-01935 on 01/19/89 by TPS
.\"_
.tr ~
.ds Un \fIprtc\fR
.\"_
.nf
\fBprtc\fR \fB-r~\fIreqid\fR [\fB-M~\fImsg\fR] [\fB-u~\fIuserid\fR]
\fBprtc\fR [\fB-j~\fIjobname\fR] [\fB-M~\fImsg\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-u~\fIuserid\fR]
\fBprtc\fR \fB-d~\fIdevice\fR [\fB-f~\fIform\fR] [\fB-M~\fImsg\fR] [\fB-r~\fIreqid\fR] [\fB-u~\fIuserid\fR]
\fBprtc\fR \fB-h\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(Un cancels or unqueues UNISON requests.  A request may be cancelled or unqueued
at any point between the time it is submitted to UNISON and the time it completes.
Users may cancel or unqueue only their own requests; 
device administrators or operators may unqueue any requests queued for their devices;
persons with userid or groupid 'unison' may cancel or unqueue any request;
root may cancel or unqueue any request on the current system.
.sp
\*(Un without the \fB-d\fR option is a request to cancel \(em a cancelled request
will disappear completely from the UNISON system.
\*(Un with the \fB-d\fR option is a request to unqueue \(em an unqueued request
will disappear from the queue(s) of the specified device(s), but will be 
otherwise unaffected.  If a request is unqueued from every device on which it could
print, it is automatically cancelled.
.sp
\*(Un with no options will list your currently active requests and ask if
you'd like to cancel each of them.
.SS Commonly Used Options
.TP 13
.BI \-h
Print full help message.  \fB-h\fR overrides all other options.
.TP 13
.BI  \-j "\ jobname"
Only requests with job name \fIjobname\fR are cancelled.  The requests to be
cancelled must belong to the current user, or to the user specified with
the \fB-u\fR option.  If more than one request is found with the specified
job name and \fB-q\fR is not specified, 
the issuer is prompted for whether to cancel each request.
.TP 13
.BI  \-r "\ reqid"
Only requests with request ID \fIreqid\fR are cancelled or unqueued.
If a requestid is given without the system nodename component, the current
system nodename is automatically appended; 
thus, on mhuxo, \fB-r 8bc9\fR becomes \fB-r 8bc9mhuxo\fR.
.SS Additional Options
.TP 13
.BI \-d "\ device"
Specifying \fB-d\fR makes this invocation of \*(Un an "unqueue" request.
Requests queued for \fIdevice\fR will be unqueued.  If no other options
are present, all requests queued for \fIdevice\fR will be unqueued; this behavior
can be limited with \fB-r\fR, \fB-f\fR, \fB-u\fR, or any combination of
these options.  \fIdevice\fR is of the
form \fIsystem/device\fR.  \fIdevice\fR
can be any single device or a device group; if a group, requests are unqueued
from each device in the group.  If 
.I system 
is not specified, the device or group must be known to the current system.
If 
.I system
is specified, the device or group must be known to \fIsystem\fR.
Examples are \fB-dqms12\fR or \fB-dhomxb/g45265\fR.
.TP 13
.BI  \-f "\ form"
Only requests for form name \fIform\fR are unqueued.  An example is
\fB-f nohole\fR.  This option is only valid in conjunction with \fB-d\fR.
.TP 13
.BI \-M "\ msg"
The message \fImsg\fR is mailed 
to the owner of each request cancelled.
If \fB-M\fR is not specified, mail is sent only if the cancelling user is
different than the owner of the cancelled request.  Even without \fB-M\fR,
a standard message is sent to the owner of a request that was cancelled
by another user.
.TP 13
.BI \-q"
\*(Un will run quietly.  Without \fB-q\fR, 
if more than one request is found that matches the \fB-j\fR option, or if
no \fB-j\fR option is given, you will be prompted for
confirmation before each is cancelled.  This option conflicts with \fB-r\fR
and \fB-d\fR.
.TP 13
.BI  \-u "\ userid"
When cancelling by job name, \fB-u\fR specifies which user's requests
are to be searched for the given job name.  \fB-u\fR defaults to the
current user.  It is of the form \fIsystem!userid\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
To cancel all your requests, with an interactive
verification prompt for each request:
.nf
	\fBprtc\fR
.fi
.sp
To cancel request 2ou7cbuts:
.nf
	\fBprtc -r2ou7cbuts\fR
.fi
.sp
A superuser can cancel (and send a message for) a request with 
jobname \fIhaydn\fR and owned by user \fIclassics\fR by typing:
.nf
	\fBprtc -j haydn -M "runaway request!" -u classics\fR
.fi
.sp
A private device operator can unqueue all requests for form \fInohole\fR
that are queued for his/her device group \fIitsmygrp\fR by typing:
.nf
	\fBprtc -d itsmygrp -f nohole -u ALL\fR
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
prt(1), prtfmt(1), prtstat(1), prtq(1)
.SH FILES
$UNISON/*
