.\"_
.TH PRTLOG 1 "90/02/08 3.4" UNISON
.SH NAME
prtlog \- print a UNISON log 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.\"_
.\"	Module:   prtlog.1, Level 3.4
.\"	File:     /az07/kls/UNISON.SCCS.3/man/u_man/man1/s.prtlog.1
.\"_
.\"	Modified: 2/8/90  11:46:20
.\"	Fetched:  11/15/90  21:40:26
.\"_
.tr ~
.ds Un prtlog
.\"_
.B \*(Un
[ \fB-f\fR ] [ \fB-h\fR ]  \fB-d\fR \fIprinter\fR | \fIprinter\fR | \fIday\fR | \fBtoday\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad b
.I \*(Un
writes to standard output the log file for the printer specified by \fIprinter\fR
or the log for the day specified by \fIday\fR, or today's log.
The day may be \fBMon, Tue, Wed, Thu, Fri, Sat, \fRor\fB Sun.\fR
.PP
The log for a printer contains information reported during transmission of the
last job to the printer. It also contains information about the status of the
printer such as "out of paper."
The log for the day reports general UNISON activity.
.SS Options
.TP 13
.BI \-d "\ printer"
The log for the specified printer is printed.
Note that printer can also be specified without the \fB-d\fR.
.TP 13
.BI \-f "\ "
The complete log is written and then lines are printed as they are added to the log.
This allows "following" the log as activity happens.
.TP 13
.BI \-h "\ "
A short help message is printer.
.PD
.SH EXAMPLE
.sp
Follow the log for the printer \fIloon\fR by typing
.sp
\fB	prtlog  -f -d loon\fR
.sp
or
.sp
\fB	prtlog  -f  loon\fR
.sp
Print the log for Tuesday by typing
.sp
\fB	prtlog Tue\fR
.sp
.SH FILES
$UNISONHOME/log.\fIdate\fR
.in
$UNISONHOME/log.\fIdevicename\fR
