.\"_
.TH PRTMOD 1 "90/04/07 3.8" UNISON
.SH NAME
prtmod \- modify the attributes of UNISON output requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.\"_
.\"	Module:   prtmod.1, Level 3.8
.\"	File:     /az07/kls/UNISON.SCCS.3/man/u_man/man1/s.prtmod.1
.\"_
.\"	Modified: 4/7/90  12:41:45
.\"	Fetched:  11/15/90  21:40:27
.\"_
.tr ~
.ds Un \fIprtmod\fR
.ds PN \fIPRTMOD\fR
.ds Pn \fIPrtmod\fR
.\"_
.nf
\fBprtmod\fR [options] [\fB-A\fR] [\fB-M \fImsg\fR] [\fB-q\fR]~~[\fB-z\fR] [\fB-P\fR] [\fIsystem\fR]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(Un modifies the specified attributes of one or more requests.  If no
\fB-r\fR \fIreqid\fR option is given, all requests on the current
system that have attributes matching those specified are modified.
Multiple attributes can be modified, except when using the -P option 
(see below).  If a \fB-r\fR \fIreqid\fR option is given and the 
\fIreqid\fR can not be found on the current system, the \*(Un is 
executed remotely on a system where the request is likely to be queued.
If \fIsystem\fR is given, the command is remotely executed on the specified
system.
.P
Only an administrator, operator, or the owner of a request can modify it.  
A request can be modified only if it is still queued for processing.
.SS "Options"
Each of the following options is optional.  For any option with an
argument that is
specified on the command line, its argument must appear in one of
these three forms:
.nf
.ce3
     \fIoldvalue:newvalue
     oldvalue
     :newvalue\fR
.fi
.sp
.TP 25
.BI \-A
Confirms that the administrator or operator wants to modify all matching requests.
If \fB-A\fR is not specified, only the administrator or operator's own
requests will be modified.
.TP 25
.BI \-a "\ \fIacct\fR"
Select requests by account number.
The account number can not be changed.
.TP 25
.BI \-b "\ \fR\fIbin\fR\fI:new-value\fR"
Select requests by bin.  
If \fI:new-value\fR is specified, it will replace the current value of this 
field.
.TP 25
.BI  \-c "\ \fR\fIcopies\fR\fI:new-value\fR"
Select requests by copies.  
If \fInew-value\fR is specified, it will replace the current value of this 
field. 
.TP 25
.BI  \-d "\ \fR\fIdest\fR\fI:new-value\fR"
Select requests by destination.  \fIdest\fR is of the form
\fIdest/device\fR.  
If \fInew-value\fR is specified, it will replace the current value of this 
field.
.TP 25
.BI \-f "\ \fR\fIform\fR\fI:new-value\fR"
Select requests by form.  
If \fInew-value\fR is specified, it will replace the current value of this 
field.
.TP 25
.BI \-h 
Print full help message.
.TP 25
.BI  \-j "\ \fR\fIjobname\fR\fI:new-value\fR"
Select requests by jobname.
If \fInew-value\fR is specified, it will replace the current value of this 
field.
.TP 25
.BI  \-l "\ \fR\fIlanguage\fR\fI:new-value\fR"
Select requests by language.
If \fInew-value\fR is specified, it will replace the current value of this 
field.
.TP 25
.BI  \-M "\ msg"
The message \fImsg\fR is mailed to the owner of the request modified.
.TP 25
.BI  \-m 
Send a mail message to all owners of modified requests describing 
the changed attributes.
.TP 25
.BI  \-o "\ \fR\fIfilter\fR\fI:new-value\fR"
Select requests by filter.
If \fInew-value\fR is specified, it will replace the current value of this 
field.
.TP 25
.BI  \-P
Move all matching requests to the head of the print queue.
This option can be used only by printer administrators and operators.
It is not permissible to use this option when modifying any other
attribute.
.TP 25
.BI  \-p "\ \fR\fImode\fR\fI:new-value\fR"
Select requests by printmode.
If \fInew-value\fR is specified, it will replace the current value of this 
field.
.TP 25
.BI  \-r "\ \fR\fIrequestid\fR"
Select requests by requestid.
.TP 25
.BI  \-s "\ \fR\fIsides\fR\fI:new-value\fR"
Select requests by number of sides specified.
If \fInew-value\fR is specified, it will replace the current value of this 
field.
.TP 25
.BI  \-u "\ \fIuser\fR"
Select requests by userid.
The userid can not be changed.
.TP 25
.BI  \-z
List the requests that would be selected for modification, but do 
not modify them.  
.TP 25
.BI  \-q
Do not list requestids of requests that have been modified and resubmitted.
.P
.SH "CAVEATS"
If \*(Un is used to modify the device of a request that was submitted
with a filter specified, the filter for the request may need to be modified
to be made consistent with the new device type.  In some cases, modification
of a request's attributes may cause routing of the request to another
system.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
Modify the number of copies for requestid abcdhomxb to 10:
.nf

	   \fBprtmod -c :10 -r abcdhomxb\fR

.fi
.sp
Reroute to printer xr2 all requests on the current system destined
for printer xerox and send a mail message:
.nf

	   \fBprtmod -d xerox:xr2 -M "printer xerox has been renamed xr2"\fR
	
.fi
.sp
Reset the forms to nohole for all jobs on the current system
that are 2 sided, destined for
printer xr2, and have forms hole:
.nf

	   \fBprtmod -d xr2 -s 2 -f hole:nohole\fR
	
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
prtrerun(1), prt(1), prtstat(1), prtq(1).
.SH FILES
$UNISON/*
