.\"_
.TH PRTQ 1 90/11/13 UNISON
.SH NAME
prtq \- report UNISON device status and workload
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.\"_
.\"	Module:   prtq.1, Level 3.12
.\"	File:     /az07/kls/UNISON.SCCS.3/man/u_man/man1/s.prtq.1
.\"_
.\"	Modified: 11/13/90  10:59:31
.\"	Fetched:  11/15/90  21:40:27
.\"_
.\" updated by un87-02805 on 02/05/87 by TPS
.\" updated by un87-02202 on 10/19/87 by TPS
.\" updated by un88-03402 on 02/04/88 by TPS
.\" updated by un88-23102 on 08/26/88 by PAH
.\" updated by un88-02909 on 11/23/88 by TPS
.\" updated by un90-21802 on 08/24/90 by MTB
.\"_
.tr ~
.ds Un \fIprtq\fR
.\"_
.nf
\fBprtq\fR [\fB-d~\fIdestination\fR] [\fB-f~\fIform\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-S\fR] [\fB-s~\fIsides\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I \*(Un
gives the status and workload of UNISON devices.
If the command is executed for a local device, the output will be written
to \fIstdout\fR.
If the command is executed for a remote device, the output also will be written to \fIstdout\fR unless it was sent as a batch job.
If sent as a batch job then output will be returned as mail.
The \fB-d\fR, \fB-f\fR, and \fB-s\fR options control the list of devices
for which the status and workload is given.
The workload is given in number of requests and number of kilobytes (Kb).
.sp
Requests may be queued for more than one device.  In this case the request
will show up as part of the workload for several devices.  (It will only
print on the first available of these devices.)  If the \fB-v\fR option
is specified, an asterisk marks each request that is queued for only one
device.
.SS Options
.TP 13
.BI \-d "\ destination"
The status and workload of device(s) is(are) given.
\fIdestination\fR has two parts: \fIlocation\fR and \fIdevice\fR (\fIlocation/device)\fR;
both parts can be given together or either part can be given alone.
\fIlocation\fR can be a network node name or a site code. 
\fIdevice\fR can be a specific device name or a device group.
The two parts are separated by a slash.
When specifying \fIlocation\fR alone, the slash is required.
When specifying \fIdevice\fR alone, the slash is not necessary.
If a site code is given without a device group, 
the status and workload for all devices
on a gateway system for that site will be given.
The default for \fIlocation\fR is the network node name of the current system
if \fIdevice\fR is not given, or the location of the device or group if 
\fIdevice\fR is given.
The default for \fIdevice\fR is all devices on the \fIlocation\fR system.
Examples of \fIdevice\fR are: \fBho3m4, /i300-a, x9700,
hou2a/, whuts/postgroup, ho, \fRand\fB mh/grizzly\fR.
.TP 13
.BI \-f "\ form"
The status of a device requested through \fB-d\fR is given only if it is
currently configured with form name \fIform\fR.  The workload for these
devices is shown, broken down by the form requested.
If \fB-f ALL\fR is given, no devices are excluded, but the workload is
still broken down by the form requested.
If \fB-v\fR is also given, the form requested by each individual request
queued for any of the devices displayed is given.
Examples of \fIform\fR are \fBALL, standard, vugr, hole, \fRand\fB nohole\fR.
.TP 13
.BI \-h "\ "
Give a short help description for each 
.I \*(Un
option, without showing the status or workload for any devices.  This option
overrides all others.
.TP 13
.BI \-p "\ "
The priority of each individual request queued for any of the displayed 
devices is given.  This option automatically triggers the \fB-v\fR option.
Priorities are assigned in the range [\fB~A~\fR-\fB~Z~\fR],
where \fBA\fR is the highest and \fBZ\fR is the lowest priority.  (These
are UNISON-assigned priorities, not grade-of-service values.)  The priority
algorithm for each device is specified via the \fI-p\fR option
of \fIprtconfig(1m)\fR.   The default priority algorithm is \fIFIFO\fR,
and all such requests are assigned  priority \fIB\fR.  
If the priority algorithm reported by \fIprtconfig(1m)\fR is \fISIZE-1\fR,
a priority is assigned based on the size of each request.
Use the  \fI-v\fR option to display requests in the order in which
they will print.  
.TP 13
.BI \-S "\ "
The status of each individual request queued for any of the displayed 
devices is given.  This option automatically triggers the \fB-v\fR option.
Examples of status codes are
.sp
.nf
.ta 20n 36n
waitfilter	waiting for filtering 
filtering	being filtered 
waitdevice	waiting for device 
ondevice	on device 
waitpurge	waiting to be purged
.fi
.TP 13
.BI \-s "\ sides"
The status of a device requested through \fB-d\fR is given only if it is
currently configured with sides \fIsides\fR.  The workload for these
devices is shown, broken down by the sides requested.
If \fB-s ALL\fR is given, no devices are excluded, but the workload is
still broken down by the sides requested.
If \fB-v\fR is also given, the sides requested by each individual request
queued for any of the devices displayed is given.
The value for \fIsides\fR should be \fB1\fR, \fB2\fR, or \fBALL\fR.
.TP 13
.BI \-v "\ "
Give the verbose form of workload information.  The individual requests in
each category (and their length in Kb) will be given, rather than just the 
number of requests (and the total length in Kb).  The \fI-v\fR option
displays requests in the order in which
they will print.  
.SH EXAMPLES
Print the status of UNISON devices attached to the system:
.sp
\fBprtq\fR
.sp
.in 5
.nf
Queue for device qms23
.ta 5n 24n 36n 48n 
	REQUESTS	DEVICE	LENGTH
	2	qms23	138
	1	q2group	81

.fi
.nf
Queue for device hocc-1
.ta 5n 24n 36n 48n
	REQUESTS	DEVICE	LENGTH
	124	x9700	4312
	357	xerox	6520
	12	hocc-1	205

.fi
Queue for device imagen3
.sp 2
.nf
.ta 12n 24n 36n 48n 50n
DEVICE	TYPE	STATUS	USER	START_TIME     
qms23	post	3rf1homxb	homxb!tps	Nov 23 11:28:19
hocc-1	x9700	3alvhound	hound1!alf	Nov 23 11:24:18
imagen3	i300	IDLE		
.fi
.sp 2
.in -2
Print the status and individual requests queued for UNISON device hocc-2:
.sp
\fBprtq -d hocc-2 -v\fR
.sp
.in 5
.nf 
.ta 5n 24n 34n 44n 56n 74n 86n
Queue for device hocc-2
	REQUEST_ID	DEVICE	TYPE	USER	ARRIVAL_TIME	LENGTH
	*zit0homxb	hocc-2	x9700	homxb!tps	Nov 23 14:14:24	1
	*zit1homxb	hocc-2	x9700	homxb!tps	Nov 23 14:14:24	1
	~zimmmhuxd	ANY	x9700	mhuxd!root	Nov 23 13:13:18	642
	*zjt9homxb	hocc-2		homxb!tps	Nov 23 14:34:24	1382
.fi
.sp
.nf
.ta 10n 20n 30n 40n 50n
DEVICE	TYPE	STATUS	USER	START_TIME
hocc-2	x9700	STOPPED
.fi
    WARNING: device hocc-2 stopped to change forms
.in -5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
prt(1), prtfmt(1), prtstat(1), prtc(1), prtdstart(1m), prtdstop(1m), prtdchg(1m), prtconfig(1m)
.SH FILES
$UNISON/*
