.\"_
.TH PRTRERUN 1 90/10/14 UNISON
.SH NAME
prtrerun \- rerun UNISON output requests with the specified attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.\"_
.\"	Module:   prtrerun.1, Level 3.6
.\"	File:     /az07/kls/UNISON.SCCS.3/man/u_man/man1/s.prtrerun.1
.\"_
.\"	Modified: 10/14/90  12:45:10
.\"	Fetched:  11/15/90  21:40:28
.\"_
.tr ~
.ds Un \fIprtrerun\fR
.ds PN \fIPRTRERUN\fR
.ds Pn \fIPrtrerun\fR
.\"_
.nf
\fBprtrerun\fR [options] [\fB-A\fR]~~[\fB-q\fR]~~[\fB-z\fR] [\fIsystem\fR]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(Un reruns the requests with the specified attributes.  If no
\fB-r\fR \fIreqid\fR option is given, all requests on the current
system that have attributes matching those specified are rerun.
If a \fB-r\fR \fIreqid\fR option is given and the \fIreqid\fR can
not be found on the current system, the \*(Un is executed remotely
on a system where the request is likely to be queued.
If \fIsystem\fR is given, the command is remotely executed on the specified
system.
.P
Only an administrator, operator, or the owner of a request can rerun it.  
A request can be rerun only if it is still queued for processing, or if
a copy of the completed request was retained by UNISON, (-k option of
\fIustart(1m)\fR.)
.SS "Options"
Each of the following options is optional. 
.sp
.TP 25
.BI \-A
Confirms that the administrator or operator wants to resubmit all matching requests.
If \fB-A\fR is not specified, only the administrator or operator's own requests
will be modified.
.TP 25
.BI \-b "\ \fR\fIbin\fR
Select requests by bin.  
.TP 25
.BI  \-c "\ \fR\fIcopies\fR
Select requests by copies.  
.TP 25
.BI  \-d "\ \fR\fIdest\fR
Select requests by destination.  \fIdest\fR is of the form
\fIdest/device\fR.  
.TP 25
.BI \-f "\ \fR\fIform\fR
Select requests by form.
.TP 25
.BI \-h 
Print full help message.
.TP 25
.BI  \-j "\ \fR\fIjobname\fR
Select requests by jobname.
.TP 25
.BI  \-l "\ \fR\fIlanguage\fR
Select requests by language.
.TP 25
.BI  \-o "\ \fR\fIfilter\fR
Select requests by filter.
.TP 25
.BI  \-P
Move all matching requests to the head of the print queue.
This option can be used only by printer administrators and operators.
.TP 25
.BI  \-p "\ \fR\fImode\fR
Select requests by printmode.
.TP 25
.BI  \-r "\ \fR\fIrequestid\fR
Select requests by requestid.
.TP 25
.BI  \-s "\ \fR\fIsides\fR
Select requests by number of sides specified.
.TP 25
.BI  \-u "\ \fR\fIuser\fR
Select requests by jobname.
.TP 25
.BI  \-z
List the requests that would be selected to be rerun, but do 
not rerun them.  
.TP 25
.BI  \-q
Do not list requestids of requests that have been  rerun.
.P
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
Rerun requestid abcdhomxb:
.nf

	   \fBprtrerun -r abcdhomxb\fR

.fi
.sp
Rerun requests on the current system  destined
for printer xerox:
.nf

	   \fBprtrerun -d xerox\fR
	
.fi
.sp
Rerun all requests on the current system 
that are 2 sided, destined for
printer xr2, and have forms hole:
.nf

	   \fBprtrerun -d xr2 -s 2 -f hole
	
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
prtmod(1), prt(1), prtstat(1), prtq(1).
.SH FILES
$UNISON/*
