.\"_
.TH PRTSTAT 1 90/08/01 UNISON
.SH NAME
prtstat \- report status information about UNISON requests 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.\"_
.\"	Module:   prtstat.1, Level 3.14
.\"	File:     /az07/kls/UNISON.SCCS.3/man/u_man/man1/s.prtstat.1
.\"_
.\"	Modified: 8/1/90  14:55:55
.\"	Fetched:  11/15/90  21:40:28
.\"_
.\" updated by un86-30002 on 10/27/86 by TPS
.\" updated by un87-02805 on 02/05/87 by TPS
.\" updated by un88-33401 on 11/28/88 by PAH
.\" updated by un88-06303 on 12/30/88 by TPS
.\" updated by un89-01909 on 03/15/89 by TPS
.\" updated by un86-30403 on 03/16/89 by CSA
.\" updated by un89-01909 on 03/17/89 by CSA
.\"_
.tr ~
.tr `-
.ds Un \fIprtstat\fR
.\"_
.B \*(Un
[\fB`A~\fR] [\fB`c\fR] [\fB`d~\fIdevice\fR] [\fB`f~\fIform\fR] [\fB`h\fR] [\fB`j~\fIjobname\fR] [\fB`R~\fB0\fR] [\fB`r~\fIreqid\fR] [\fB`t~\fItime\fR] [\fB`u~\fIuserid\fR] [\fB`v\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\*(Un reports status information about UNISON requests (see 
\fIprt\fR(1)).
The default output includes the request ID, job name and most recent status
of requests queued for the current user ID.
.PP
Some types of status information that may be reported follow:
.PP
.br
          submitted - the request has not been accepted into UNISON
.br
          accepted - UNISON has accepted the request and it is waiting to be processed
.br
          filtering - the request is being translated to a language the printer understands
.br 
          filtered - the request has been filtered and is waiting to print
.br
          printing - the request is being printed
.br
          printed on xxxx - the request has printed on the printer named xxxx
.br
          sent to yyyyy - the request has been sent to system yyyyy to be printed
.br
          failed filtering - the request could not be filtered
.br
          routing to MVS/JES3 - the request has been sent to an MVS/JES3 printer
.br
          canceled - the request was canceled because UNISON was unable to print
the job. 
.br
.SS Commonly Used Options
.TP 13
.BI \-c"
Print the status output of requests that have already been
completed, in addition to requests queued. This information is 
obtained from a log file, usually
kept around for at least a day.  
.TP 13
.BI \-h
Print full help message.
.TP 13
.BI \-j "\ jobname"
Limit the status output to requests with job name \fIjobname\fR.
.TP 13
.BI \-r "\ reqid"
Limit the status output to the request with request ID \fIreqid\fR.
If a request ID is given without the system nodename component, the current
system nodename is automatically appended; 
thus \fB-r 8bc9\fR becomes \fB-r 8bc9mhuxo\fR.
.TP 13
.BI \-v"
\*(Un will give a verbose response.  
The user's system, account number, bin, destination, device requested, 
form, copies, grade, language, bytes, print mode,
and sides
of each request will also be given.  
In addition, a status history of each request will be given, 
rather than only the most recent status.
.SS Additional Options
.TP 13
.BI \-A"
The status for any requests satisfying the rest of the parameters will be
given, regardless of the requests' owners.  This option is used
to override the default value of the \fB-u\fR option when the actual userid
is unknown.  If \fB-A\fR is specified without \fB-r\fR on a heavily-used system,
\*(Un may take quite a long time to generate its output.
.TP 13
.BI \-d "\ device"
Limit the status output to requests with device \f2device\f1.
\f2device\f1 has two parts;
both parts can be given together, or either part can be given alone.
When specifying both parts, the \f2device\f1 argument should appear
in the form \f2location\f1/\f2output_device\f1.
\f2location\f1 can be a network node name or a site code. 
\f2output_device\f1 can be a specific printer name 
or a generic device type.
The two parts are separated by a slash ( / ).
.sp
When specifying \f2location\f1 alone, the slash is required.
When specifying \f2output_device\f1 alone, the slash is not necessary.
The default for \f2location\f1 is the network node name of the current system.
Examples of \f2device\f1 are: \f3ho2g4, imagen1, i300, x9700, aps,
prism, hou2a/, ihuxj/, ho, wh, /i300, mh/i300\f1 and \f3ih/im1\f1.
.TP 13
.BI \-f "\ form"
Limit the status output to requests with form name \fIform\fR.
.TP 13
.B \-R 0
Do \fInot\fR attempt any remote executions to get better (more up-to-date)
statuses.  Normally, if a request is routed to another system for
processing/printing,
\*(Un will attempt a remote execution on that system to get a more
up-to-date status.  Depending upon the network used, this could
cause delays in the display of your output.  \fB-R 0\fR forces
\*(Un to obtain status information only from the local system,
thereby eliminating any potential delays in the display of your output.
.TP 13
.BI \-t "\ time"
Limit the status output to requests whose status has changed within time
\fItime\fR.  \fItime\fR can be specified as \fIdays:hours\fR,
\fIdays:\fR or \fIhours\fR.
\fIdays\fR and \fIhours\fR must be integer
values, with \fIhours\fR restricted to the range of 0-23.
If \fB-t\fR is not specified, the status output is not limited by
time (i.e., all available statuslog entries are used).
Specifying \fB-t 0\fR, \fB-t 0:\fR or \fB-t 0:0\fR is equivalent
to not specifying \fB-t\fR at all.  Examples of \fItime\fR are:
\fB2\fR (two hours), \fB3:\fR (three days) and \fB4:12\fR (four days
and twelve hours).
.TP 13
.BI \-u "\ userid"
Limit the status output to requests with user ID \fIuserid\fR.
Note that if \fB-u\fR is not specified, it defaults to the current user
ID (see also \fB-A\fR).
\f2userid\f1 has two parts;
both parts can be given together, or either part can be given alone.
When specifying both parts, the \f2userid\f1 argument should appear
in the form \f2system\f1!\f2user\f1.
\f2system\f1 is a network node name and \f2user\f1 is a login id.
The two parts are separated by an exclamation point ( ! ).
.sp
When specifying \f2system\f1 alone, the "!" is required.
When specifying \f2user\f1 alone, the "!" is not necessary.
Examples of \f2userid\f1 are: \f3pete, homxc!tom, hou2h!, !kat\f1.
.SH EXAMPLES
To get a short status of all your uncompleted requests,
.sp
.in+3
\fBprtstat\fR 
.sp
.in+5
.nf
.ta 1n 25n 40n 55n
ar56baghdad(job-3)	homxb!kmj	accepted	Jun 25  03:48:30
as0gbaghdad(job-2)	homxb!kmj	sent to amman	Jun 25  03:49:34
as0gbaghdad(job-2)	homxb!kmj	filtered	Jun 25  03:50:25
atcxbaghdad      	homxb!kmj	printed on cario	Jun 25  03:49:34
.fi
.in-8
.sp
To get a status history of request lm90riyadh submitted by an unknown user,
.sp
.in+3
\fBprtstat -v -c -A -r lm90riyadh\fR
.sp
.in+5
.nf
.ta 1n  25n 45n
request:  lm90riyadh 	jobname:  quell   	userssys: riyadh
userid:   tps        	account:  hoj399  	bin:      1558
dest:     baghdad    	device:   x9700  	form:     ANY
copies:   1          	grade:    s       	language:
bytes:    100          	mode:     ANY        	sides:    1
status:   submitted   	date:     Jun 25   	time:     04:35:03
status:   accepted   	date:     Jun 25   	time:     04:35:40
origsys:  riyadh
status:   sent       	date:     Jun 25    	time:     04:35:43
sent to:  damascus
status:   sent       	date:     Jun 25    	time:     04:35:50
sent to:  cairo
status:   sent       	date:     Jun 25    	time:     04:56:32
sent to:  beirut
status:   accepted   	date:     Jun 25   	time:     04:57:03
origsys:  riyadh
status:   filtering   	date:     Jun 25   	time:     04:57:14
filter:   /usr/lbin/x9700
status:   filtered   	date:     Jun 25   	time:     04:57:16
language: x9700   	bytes:    1883535
status:   printing   	date:     Jun 25   	time:     04:57:24
status:   completed   	date:     Jun 25   	time:     04:58:47
destused: beirut   	typeused: x9700   	devused:  xerox1
.fi
.in-8
.SH FILES
$UNISON/*
.SH SEE ALSO
prt(1)
