.\"_
.TH timrep 1 90/04/09 LOCAL
.SH NAME 
timrep, timecard, trep \- collect weekly time reports
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
.\"#ident "@(#)trep.man	1.13	90/04/09	19:00:16"
.\"#******************************************
.\"#*           AT&T PROPRIETARY             *
.\"#*  Use pursuant to Company Instructions  *
.\"#******************************************
.\"_
.B timrep | timecard | trep
[-d printer|-o file] [-h] [-j] [-k] [-e|-l|-s [year]] [-p [num]] [-r mm/dd[/yy]] [-t] [-u user] [-b] [mm/dd[/yy]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is used to collect data for weekly time reports.
It displays a formatted
screen with read-only user profile fields and other fields that
allow a user to enter hours for a specified week on 1 to 12 different
case numbers.
The program name is \fItimrep\fR, but may be called by the names
\fItimecard\fR or \fItrep\fR on some systems depending on how it
was installed.
.P
Time reports may be entered for multiple weeks in a single session by
pressing the \fBCTRL-W\fR key.
This allows a user to move forward or backward one week at a time
to change or add reports as desired.
After the data is entered for a week, the user is asked if 
the data should be saved.
If the user responds \fB"y"\fR to the save request, the data is marked
for saving, and the user is asked if a report should be printed
for the week marked for saving.
If the user responds \fB"y"\fR to the print request, then a time report is
printed for the week.
.P
The program interacts with the timecard database to check the validity
of the user running the program and to insure that only legal case
numbers are entered.
If the UNIX login id of a user running the program is not unique in the
timecard data files, then the program looks for a file
called \fB.trepssn\fR in the user's home directory that contains
a single line with the format \fIlogin_id:ssn\fR (\fIlogin_id\fR
is the user's login id, and \fIssn\fR is the user's social security
number).
The social security number is used to resolve the login id ambiguity.
If a \fB.trepssn\fR does not exist, then the program prompts the
user for their social security number to resolve the conflict.
If the UNIX login id is missing from the timecard
data files, then the program prompts the user for a social security
number and that is used to locate the user's record.
.P
Timecard administrators may change the user timesheet that is displayed
in the timecard window by
pressing the key \fBCTRL-A\fR key and entering an \fBid\fR (i.e. login id,
name, social security number, or department number) of the new
user in the status line window at the bottom of the timecard screen.
The \fBid\fR may be a regular expression as in \fIed(1)\fR.
If the id is unique, the new user's records are displayed.
If the id
is not unique, type a \fB*\fR to display a window of the users
that match the id.
The keystroke commands \fB(D)own\fR, \fB(U)p\fR, \fB(N)ext Pg\fR,
\fB(P)rev Pg\fR navigate through the window.
Select a record by highlighting it and typing a RETURN
(\fBCR\fR).
Typing \fB(Q)uit\fR quits without selecting a record.
The id entry line accepts the following intra-line editing commands,
.IP \fB^A\fR 10
Go to the beginning of the id field
.IP \fB^B\fR 10
Move left one character
(left arrow key also works)
.IP \fB^E\fR 10
Go to the end of the id field
.IP \fB^F\fR 10
Move right one character
(right arrow key also works)
.IP \fB^K\fR 10
Clear to end of line
.P
Command line options include
.IP "\fB-d printer\fR" 12
This option defines the printer destination for the time report.
If this option is not specified, the printout goes to the printer
specified by the environment variable \fBDESTINATION\fR.
If this environment variables is not set, then the printer in the
user's \fB.prt\fR file is used.
If a user does not have a .prt file, then the printout goes to the
system default printer is used.
The timecard sheet is printed using the command \fBprtfmt\fR.
To check the management field on the timesheet, include the line,
.sp
\fBset mgmt_flag=yes\fR
.sp
in your \fB.treprc\fR file (see below).
To check the non-management field, include the line,
.sp
\fBset mgmt_flag=no\fR.
.IP \fB-h\fR 12
Display the timecard commands.
.IP \fB-j\fR 12
Display the valid cases from the timecard database.
.IP \fB-k\fR 12
Remove a user's data lock file.
The timecard program locks a user's data file to prevent simultaneous
updates to the timecard database.
This option allows a user to remove the lock file if a
previous timecard program terminated abnormally.
The program displays information on who has the user data files locked
and the date and time at which they were locked.
It then queries to see if the lock should be removed.
.IP "\fB-s [year]\fR" 12
Generate a short summary report for the current user.
This report includes a project summary, an activity summary, and
a list of time-off days taken for the year to date.
The reports are printed on the user's terminal.
Optionally, the user may specify a year (eg., trep -s 89),
in which case the summary report
is generated for the year specified.
If the year specified is greater than the current year, then a summary report
is generated for the current year-to-date.
.IP "\fB-l [year]\fR" 12
Generate a long summary report for the current user.
This includes the reports displayed for a short summary plus a listing
of all the cases worked on for each week since the beginning of the year.
Optionally, the user may specify a year (e.g., trep -s 89),
in which case the summary report
is generated for the year specified.
If the year specified is greater than the current year, then a summary report
is generated for the current year-to-date.
.IP "\fB-e [year]\fR" 12
Generate a long summary report for the current user (see above)
that includes only the exception time (e.g vacation) cases.
.IP "\fB-o file\fR" 12
Put the troff output of the time report into file \fBfile\fR instead of
sending it to a printer.
.IP "\fB-p [num]\fR" 12
If \fBnum\fR is not specified, then display the report for the previous
week, rather than the current week.
This option is used by a user who prepares weekly
time reports on Monday for the previous week.
If a user always wants the previous week to be displayed on startup rather
than the current week, then they may set the \fBTRDEFAULTWK\f environment
variable as follows:
.sp
\fBTRDEFAULTWK=P\fR
.br
\fBexport TRDEFAULTWK\fR
.sp
An optional argument following \fB-p\fR
allows you to go back \fBnum\fR weeks from the current week.
.IP "\fB-r mm/dd[/yy]\fR" 12
Generate a hard copy time report for the week containing the
date \fBmm/dd[/yy]\fR (e.g. 7/4/94).
If the year is not specified, then it defaults to the current year.
.IP "\fB-t\fR" 12
This option causes the program to pause waiting for carriage return before
it brings up the timecard screen.
It is to debug the timecard software.
.IP "\fB-u user\fR" 12
This option is available only for timecard administrators.
Run the program for a user whose UNIX login id, name,
social security number, or department number is \fBuser\fR.
The program accepts regular expression strings as in \fIed(1)\fR.
If this option is used, then the default cases file (see below) is not read
and the report contains a \fBPrepared by:\f line with the name of the person
who created the report.
If there is more than one user with id \fBuser\fR in the timecard
database, then the program displays a menu of users whose login ids
are in conflict.
The administrator can choose the menu item of the user whose timesheet is
to be edited.
.IP "\fB-b\fR" 12
This causes the program to run in batch mode.
The cases from a \fB.treprc\fR file (see below) populate the current week
if the week is otherwise empty without bringing up the timesheet screen.
This is useful for running timrep from \fIat(1)\fR or \fIcrontab(1)\fR.
.IP \fBmm/dd[/yy]\fR 12
Start the timecard program for the week containing the date \fBmm/dd[/yy]\fR.
If the year is not specified, then it defaults to the current year.
.P
The user may create a file call \fB\.treprc\fR in their home directory
that contains the default cases and hours to be displayed at startup.
This makes it easy to produce standard reports with little effort.
This file contains one record for each default case number containing
6 colon separated fields, case:n:n:n:n:n,
where \fBn\fR is the number of hours for the case number for each standard
work day - Monday through Friday.
No overtime or weekend hours can be specified in the default file.
An example \fB.treprc\fR file is shown below:
.P
E04010:8
.br
E09010:0:8
.br
E06510
.br
V10010
.sp
The above example shows a default file with 8 hours for case ZE04010
on Monday and 8 hours for case ZE09010 on Tuesday.
Cases ZE06510 and ZV10010 are displayed without hours, and the user
has to fill in the hours for each day as they are worked (this option
gives the user the ability to enter a time report template with all
the appropriate case numbers filled in, but all the hours
fields blank).
Case numbers in the \fB.treprc\fR file may contain the
prefix that appears in the read only field on the timecard screen.
For example, the case number ZE04010 may appear as E04010 or ZE04010.
.P
The \fB.treprc\fR file may contain the keyword \fIset\fR followed
by the string \fIprint=<print_command>\fR, where \fI<print_cmd>\fR
is the full pathname to a command that you want to use to print
your timesheet.
For example,
.P
\fBset print=/usr/add-on/unison/bin/prtfmt -Tpost -s 1\fR
.P
or,
.P
\fBset print=/usr/add-on/local/bin/pfmt\fR
.P
The \fB.treprc\fR file may contain a full path name that points to a
file containing the cases/hours (only one level of indirection
is allowed).
The pathname must begin in column 1 on the first line of the file.
This allows a coach to define the default
cases/hours for their group, and then have each group member create
a \fB.treprc\fR file that points to the default file.
The \fB.treprc\fR file may be generated automatically from within the
timecard program by typing \fB^B\fR (control-b).
The data on the currently displayed timesheet is used to generate
the \fB.treprc\fR file.
The program reports an error if the current timesheet contains exception
time (e.g vacation), weekend time, or overtime.
If the user already has a \fB.treprc\fR file in their home directory,
then the program asks if it should be overwritten.
.P
You can create a personalized list of valid cases that are displayed when
a star \fB"*"\fR is typed in the project field  (see \fICOMMANDS\fR section
below).
This feature is useful if there are many valid cases and you want
to see only the cases that apply to you.
To use this feature, create a file containing your case numbers
(use the \fB-j\fR option to get a list of the cases), then
set and export the environment variable \fBTREPCASES\fR to point to this
file.
For example,
.sp
\fBTREPCASES=$HOME/.trepcases\fR
.br
\fBexport TREPCASES\fR
.sp
You can add an optional comment to each case separated from it by
a colon (':') to identify the case number.
For example,
.DS
A11044:Novell
A11049:Training
V24010:DEFINITY 92
.DE
.P
Alternately, the valid cases file may contain a full path name that
points to another file containing a list of valid cases.
This allows a group supervisor to define the valid cases
for his/her group, and then have each group member point to this
list.
Case numbers in the \fB.trepcases\fR file may contain the
prefix that appears in the read only field on the timecard screen.
For example, the case number ZE04010 may appear as E04010 or ZE04010.
.P
You can prevent your social security number from being displayed
on printed copies of timesheets by putting the line,
.P
\fBset hide_ssn\fR
.P
in the \fB.treprc\fR file in your home directory.
.P
You can change the video attribute of the error line displayed
at the bottom of the screen with the resource setting,
.P
\fBset err_video_attr=attribute\fR
.P
where \fBattribute\fR is \fBblink, bold, dim, normal, reverse,
underline\fR, or \fBstandout\fR.
The default attribute is \fBstandout\fR.
Some terminals may not support all the video attributes.
.P
.SH COMMANDS
The following keystroke commands are available from the data entry screen.
.IP \fB?\fR 10
Display this help text
.IP \fBDEL\fR 10
EXIT program WITHOUT saving hours entered
(DEL is your delete or interrupt key)
.IP \fB^A\fR 10
Change to a new user's timesheet (administrators only)
.IP \fB^D\fR 10
Move Down to next case number line (same as down arrow)
.IP \fB^E\fR 10
Erase current field
.IP \fB^F\fR 10
Fill the current record with the default
case number values (from $HOME/.treprc)
.IP \fB^G\fR 10
Copy a week's data into all the weeks in the month
containing the week
.IP \fB^L\fR 10
Erase all fields in current project line
.IP \fB^N\fR 10
Move to Next field (also RETURN & TAB & right arrow)
.IP \fB^O\fR 10
Toggle between regular, paid overtime, and unpaid overtime fields
.IP \fB^P\fR 10
Move to Previous field (same as left arrow)
.IP \fB^R\fR 10
Erase all fields in current record
.IP \fB^T\fR 10
Display information about the current user
.IP \fB^U\fR 10
Move Up to previous project line (same as up arrow)
.IP \fB^V\fR 10
Refresh the screen
.IP \fB^W \fR 10
Move the collection week (F)orward or (B)ackward.
Also allows you to (M)ark or (C)opy the case number data
for a week.
To copy, you must first mark a week, then move forward or
backward to the desired week and then press 'C' to
copy the case number data to the desired week.
.IP \fB^X\fR 10
EXIT program (you will be asked if you want to
save hours added or changed since the last save)
.IP \fB^Z\fR 10
Save the current report (the data will not be 
written to the file until the user correctly
exits trep).  This command may be used to request
printing a hardcopy or the current week (ie., press
^Z without making any changes, and you will be asked
if you want to print the report).
.IP \fB*\fR 10
Display list of legal field values in a pop-up window
.IP \fBD\fR 10
Scroll down in a pop-up window (same as down arrow)
.IP \fBU\fR 10
Scroll up in a pop-up window (same as up arrow)
.IP \fBN\fR 10
Display next page in a pop-up window
.IP \fBP\fR 10
Display previous page in a pop-up window
.IP \fBQ\fR 10
Exit from a pop-up window
.IP \fBRETURN\fR 10
Select the highlighted item in a pop-up window
.P
If a field fails a validation check, an error message is printed
on the last line of the screen.  Touch any key to clear the error
message and return to the field.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables must be set for the timecard
software to work correctly.
In the MT GBCS environment, these variables are set automatically
by the standard login files and do \fInot\fR need to be
set explicitly.
.IP TRROOT 12
This points to the root of the timecard program directory tree
(e.g. lib, bin, man).
This is set to \fB/usr/add-on/tools/timecard\fR in the MT GBCS environment.
.IP TRDATA_ROOT 12
This points to the directory containing the timecard database
files (e.g PERSONNEL, PROJECTS).
This is set to \fB/mt/mtgzfs8/timecards\fR in the MT GBCS environment.
.IP TRDATA 12
This points to a user data file directory.
In the MT GBCS environment, this is set to a value that depends
on the department of the caller of the timecard program.
In non-GBCS environments, this normally set to the same value
as \fB$TRDATA_ROOT\fR.
.IP TREPCASES 12
Points to a file that contains a list of cases that are displayed
when project case field help is requested.
.IP TRDEFAULTWK 12
If set, this variable says that a user wants to start the timecard
program in the previous week.
.IP DESTINATION 12
Contains the name of a printer to which timecard sheets are printed.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
$HOME/.treprc
.TP
$HOME/.trepcases
.TP
$HOME/.trepssn
.SH SEE ALSO
at(1), crontab(1)
.sp
\fBTreprg\fP is a command that generates useful reports from the
timecard database.
See the \fBtreprg\fR manual page for more details.
.sp
\fBwkdir\fR is a command that generates work direction reports from
the timecard database.
See the \fBwkdir\fR manual page for more details.
.SH CAVEATS
The timecard sheet is printed in landscape mode using the
troff tbl macros.
Since these landscape tables are wider than fit on a portrait
page, the user receives warnings about tables that are too wide.
These warnings should be ignored.
.sp
The timecard program displays the current week on startup.
Users that do their time reporting on Monday for
the previous week should use the \fB-p\fR option to get the previous week
displayed on startup or set the \fBTRDEFAULTWK\fR environment variable.
Alternatively, a user may type \fBCTRL-W\fR command to move
backward from the current week.
.sp
The timecard program requires a minimum
window size allowable is 24 rows by 80 columns.
Anything smaller than this causes unpredictable results.
.sp
The command names \fBtimrep\fR, \fBtimecard\fR, and \fBtrep\fR are
aliases for each other.
