.\"_
.TH opr 1 "90/04/09 v1" UNISON
.SH NAME
opr \- off line print
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
'\" t
.\"_
.\"	Module:   uopr.1, Level 1.1
.\"	File:     /az07/kls/UNISON.SCCS.3/man/u_man/man1/s.uopr.1
.\"_
.\"	Modified: 4/9/90  13:47:17
.\"	Fetched:  11/15/90  21:40:29
.\"_
.ds pn opr
.ds PN OPR
.ds Pn Opr
.de ML
..
.\"_
opr
[ option ... ]
[ filename ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad b
.I \*(Pn
causes the named files to be printed by building and executing a \fIprt\fR command.
The options specified are converted to the corresponding \fIprt\fR command options.
If no filenames appear,
.I \*(pn
reads the standard input.
The special filename `\-' 
stands for standard input.
.PP
The following options may appear in any order preceding the file names:
.TP 13
.BI \-d "\ dest"
Print the output at remote station
.IR dest .
By default, dest is taken from the environment variable DEST.
If DEST is null or not set, the first two characters
of the system network node name are used as the default.
.TP
.BI \-b "\ bin"
Put the output in bin number
.IR bin .
By default, the bin number is taken from the environment
variable BIN unless it is null, in which case it
is taken from the password file.
.TP
.BI \-t "\ type"
Select the \f2type\fP of printer to print on.
\f2Type\fP is \f3xr\fP for a Xerox printer, or \f3pr\fP
for a standard line printer.
The default is taken from the environment variable TYPE.
If TYPE is null or not set, type pr is used.
.TP
.BI \-f "\ forms"
Print the output using printer forms
.IR forms .
For Xerox printers (print type \f3xr\fP), possiblities include:
.PP
.RS 8m
.PP
.nf
hole		8.5 x 11 paper with holes (default)
nohole		8.5 x 11 paper with no holes
.fi
.RE
.IP "" 13
Other forms may be available at some locations.
Consult your computation center operations staff.
.IP "" 13
The default forms may be changed by setting the
environment variable FORMS.
.TP
.BI \-1
Print on
.I 1
side of a sheet of paper.
Valid only for Xerox printers.
.TP
.BI \-2
Print on
.I 2
sides of a sheet of paper.
Valid only for Xerox printers.
Default at most sites;
ignored at sites without the duplexing feature.
.TP 13
.BI \-p "\ printmode"
Print the output in the mode
.IR printmode .
This option is used only with Xerox printers.
Possibilities include:
.PP
.RS 8m
.nf
land[scape]	computer output orientation(default)
port[rait]	8.5 x 11, letter orientation
2on1		2 landscape pages on 1 side of a portrait sheet
.fi
.RE
.TP 13
.BI \-y "\ style"
Print using font style
.I style.
Default is \f3bell\fP in landscape and portrait modes (spaced to produce 66
lines per page), and \f3mini\fP (a miniature version of \f3bell\fP style)
in 2on1 mode.
Valid only for printing on Xerox printers.
.ne 8
Allowable styles are:
.sp
.RS 8m
.TS
c c c c c s c s
c c c c c c c c
l r r l r r r r.
			full	dflt lin/page	max chr/lin
style	chr/in	lin/in	TX	port	land	port	land

vint	12.0	6.5	yes	66	50	94	126
elit	12.0	6.5	yes	66	50	94	126
pica	10.0	6.0	yes	62	46	78	105
goth	10.0	6.0	yes	62	46	78	105
bell	13.6	8.5	yes	88	66	106	132
mini	17.6	12.5	yes	132	96	132	132
xr18	6.8	4.0	yes	42	31	53	71
vg14	5.2	4.2	yes	43	32	40	55
tr14	NA	4.2	yes	43	32	NA	NA
pr14	~7.0	5.5	no	50	37	~54	~73
pr18	~6.0	4.5	no	41	31	~47	~63
pr24	~4.5	3.0	no	30	22	~35	~47
.TE
.RE
.IP "" 13
The full TX column indicates which styles (fonts) contain the full
character set of the BTL TX train.
The pr fonts contain only capital letters, digits, period, comma, hyphen,
and diagonal.
.IP "" 13
The xr, vg, tr, and pr styles are large fonts for viewgraphs, where the
third and fourth characters of the names indicate the approximate point
size of the font.
.IP "" 13
The tr and pr styles are proportionally spaced fonts
which may not align horizontally for such constructs as
centered text and indented lists. 
.TP 13
.BI \-k "\ mask"
The
.I mask
is the name of an electronic form to be overlaid on each page.
Normally, the mode of the mask will match the printmode,
i.e., a portrait mode mask will be overprinted on a portrait mode page.
To specify the mask mode, append a \f2p\fP (portrait) or \f2l\fP (landscape)
to the mask name.
Thus, -k prin2p would force a portrait mask.
Consult your computation center for the names of current masks.
.TP
.BI \-l n
Print
.IR n
lines per page.
Default is 66
for the line printer
and for the default font style on Xerox printers.
See the
.B -y
option for defaults for other Xerox styles.
.TP
.BI \-e n
Do a logical page eject every
.IR n
lines.
Similar to
.BR \-l ,
but begins each page 4 lines down from the top rather than at the top.
A useful option for continuous output without page headers is
.BR \-e58 .
.TP
.BI \-o n
Offset the output
.IR n
spaces from the left margin.
Default is 0.
.TP
.BI \-n
Number the lines in sequence as they are printed.
Begin at 1 for each file.
.TP
.BI \-r
Raw mode.
The first character of each line is taken to be the carriage control
(e.g., `1', `\ ', `+').
Normally used only in conjunction with
.IR npf (1).
.TP 13
.BI \-c n
Make
.IR n
copies of the output.
Default is 1; max is 99.
.TP
.BI \-8
Print at 8 lines per inch. Default is 6 lines per inch.
This option is valid only for high-speed line printers
(not for Xerox prints, and not at all locations).
.TP
.BI \-s
Silent.
Suppress the one-line message which contains the submitted job name.
.ML
.TP
.BI \-mail "\ address"
Send the output to bin \f3MAIL\fP for delivery via company mail,
instead of to the bin indicated by the \f3-b\fP option.
Use \f2address\fP
as a string to specify the name and company mail address of the
recipient to appear on the banner page.
Semicolons can
be used to split the address string so that a multi-line address
(maximum 7 lines) is displayed on the banner page.
The \f3-d\fP option can be used to speed mail delivery by printing the job
at a remote station near the recipient where it will enter
the company mail for final delivery.
\f2Note\fP: some locations do not support mailed computer output from the
computer center.
..
.TP
.BI \-j "\ jobname"
Use
.IR jobname
(1 to 8 characters) instead of the default
.IR jobname
supplied by
.BI UNIX
on the banner page of the printout.
The
.IR jobname
parameter may contain any alphanumeric or national (@, $, #)
characters and may range from one to eight characters in length.
The first character must be an alphabetic or national character.
Illegal characters are automatically changed to pound signs '#',
and names longer than 8 characters are truncated to 8.
.TP
.BI \-u "\ uname"
Use
.IR uname
(1 to 8 characters) instead of your login name on the banner
page of the printout.
The rules for
.IR uname
are the same as for
.IR jobname.
.TP 13
.BI \-a "\ acct"
Use
.IR acct
as the account number for the job.
By default, \f2acct\fP is taken from the password file.
.TP
.BI \-z
Write the generated job stream to standard output, instead of submitting
it as a job.
This option is used primarily for debugging.
.PP
.IR \*(Pn
queues a job to do the printing
when facilities become available.
The named files may be re-used immediately without affecting the printing.
.PP
.IR \*(Pn
performs optimal carriage control and prints a full 66 lines to a page
unless any of the
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-y " (for Xerox output only)"
and
.BR \-r
options are used.
A new sheet is begun for each file.
Backspaces, form feeds, carriage returns, and tabs are handled.
Escape characters result in a fatal error.
All other control characters are passed on to the output.
Tab stops are assumed every 8 spaces.
.SH EXAMPLES
.ne 4
.IR \*(Pn
is a useful output sink for
.IR nroff (1)
and
.IR pr (1).
To get a paginated and titled listing:
.nf
.sp
          pr name ... | \*(pn
.fi
.sp
.ne 4
To print a file on a Xerox printer in portrait mode, using style xr18:
.nf
.sp
          \*(pn -txr -pport -yxr18 filename
.fi
.sp
To print \f2sendfile\fP on a Xerox printer and mail it (with a two-line address)
in the company mail to John Doe:
.IP
opr -txr -mail "J. A. Doe;MT 7Z-248" sendfile
.PP
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta 22n
/etc/passwd	account number and bin number
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
mmx(1), pr(1), prt(1), npf(1), col(1), uname(1), x9700(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Various diagnostics are produced with respect to invalid command
line options.
The message `escape sequence invalid' is produced if the file
contains ASCII escape sequences typically generated by the \s-1\f3-TX\fP\s0
or the \s-1\f3-T37\fP\s0 options of \f2nroff\fP(1).
.SH BUGS
The Xerox printers have a limited overprinting capability.
If this limit is exceeded, the page will be blank.
.br
Lines longer than 159 characters are silently truncated.
.br
The use of the \f3-y\fP, \f3-k\fP, or \f3-p\fP options with files
that already have Xerox control information (e.g. from \f2x9700\fP(1))
will result in strange output.
