.\"_
.TH XPRTCUT 1 "Release 4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xprtcut \- prints the content of the X window's primary cutbuffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"_
\fBxprtcut\fR [ -\fBd\fR \fIprinter\fR ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad b
\fBxprtcut\fR prints the content of the X window primary cutbuffer,
cutbuffer zero.  If the option -\fBd\fR \fIprinter\fR is specified,
then the content is printed on printer \fIprinter\fR instead of
stdout.
.PP
To select text (input) into cutbuffer, move the pointer to the
beginning of the text you want to select.  Hold down the  left  mouse
button while moving the pointer to end of the desired text, then
release the button.  The text is highlighted, copied into the
cutbuffer.
.PP
You can select a single word or line simply by clicking the left mouse
button.  To select a single word, place the pointer on the word and
double-click the left mouse button.  To select a single line, place the
pointer on the line and triple-click the left mouse button.  Once you
have made a selection with the left button, you can extend that
selection with the right button.
.PP
A quick method to select a region, for example a portion of the optics
scroll buffer, is to first click the left mouse button on the
beginning text.  Then move the pointer to the ending text and click
the right mouse button.  The region of the text you want is
highlighted and copied into the cutbuffer.   You may have to scroll
the desired text to make it visible on the display.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 8
.B \-d \fIprinter\fP
This option specified that the content of the cut buffer 
should be printed on printer \fIprinter\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xterm(1), xcutsel(1)
.SH AUTHOR
David K. Yip
.\"_
.\"_
